♪ [music] ♪
In this video, we're going to learn
about something called flashes.
Have you ever been on a website, and you
save something or you try to log in?
Either something successfully happens or
an error happens, and what they do is they
just redirect you to either a new page or
another page. That's great,
because what you can do is you can sort of
just put the user where they were or where
they need to go. But you can also show
them a little bit of information at the
time. Here, I've said, "Successfully
created to store. Care to leave a review?"
Then, we were to redirect them to the page
for that store, or maybe a page that lists
out all of our stores, depending on what
we want to do. Now, that's called a
"flash," which is essentially, I don't
want to redirect them to a page just to
tell them something. But on the next time
that they load a page,
I want to send them a little piece of
information, and display this flash
message up here. Then, the user can either
refresh the page to dismiss it,
or click an X and have it gone. So how
does that work? Well, let's go down here.
Let's go to our Create Store, and the way
that you set a flash is you simply type
"req.flash". That's the method that we
have there. Why is that flash available to
us? Well, again, if we go back to our
App.js, and we take a look at our
middleware, search for "flash", you're
going to see, here we go,
"app.use(flash())". What that's using is
this flash middleware,
which will give us a method called
"flash", and then the next time that we
actually view our page, we're going to
have those flashes available to us.
So we'll go back to our Store controller
here, and flash takes two things.
First the type of flash. So it can be
"success," it can be "error,"
it can be "warning." It can be any type.
You can make up your own categories.
What I like to do is stick with those
three, "success," "warning,"
and "error," or I think "info" is another
one that we could use.
Those will just all line up with CSS
classes on the other end.
So we're going to do "success." Then, when
that successfully happens,
we're going to say, "Successfully
created," and I'm using backticks here.
So notice how they're not single or double
quotes, backticks so I can use the ES6
interpolation. Notice that's a $, because
this is JavaScript, and not a #,
which we use in Pug. You'll just say,
"store.name." Then, we'll say,
"Care to leave a review?" So let's
double-check that that works.
Before we redirect them, we're going to
flash that data. So let's go and add a new
one. We'll say, "test," "test," add a
couple items here, give it a save,
and okay. Good. Before we directed, we
flash it up, and we see "Successfully
Created test." That was the name of the
store. "Care to leave a review?" So we can
also say, "req.flash." Actually, we can do
this on the homepage,
rather than having to submit a new one
every time. So let's go to the homepage,
and we'll say, "req.flash('error',". I'll
say, "Something Happened,"
like this. I think there's "info" and
"warning," and "success."
I think those are the four, maybe three.
Let's double-check. So let's give it a
save. Go to your homepage. You'll notice
that nothing pops up,
and that's because this is the same
request. We flash it, and then we also
render it out, and these flashes only get
sent on the next request,
unless you explicitly pass them. I'll show
you how to pass them in just a second.
But in this case, we flash it, and then we
redirect, which is considered a second
request. So here, now if I refresh again,
you see, there we go,
we've got our "error," we've got our
"info," we have our "warning,"
and we have our "success." So those are
all the infos that we have.
What I've done, how is this actually
happening? Well, a couple things.
First of all, let's open up our App.js,
and go back to some of our middleware.
Let's scroll down to Line 54, where it
says, "app.use((req, res,
next)". Remember, this is middleware. What
we do is we say, "res.locals.flashes =
req.flash". What that will do is it will
pull out any flashes that need to be
shown. So again, here you do the flashing.
Here, on the next request,
it will pull out the flashes. Then, what
that will do is it will put them in your
locals. Now, what is locals? Locals are
all the variables that are available to
you in your template. So we have this
variable called "flashes."
Now, if you go to our layout.pug and go
down to right here, scroll all the way
down to "block messages," here we have
some code that says, "If there is
locals.flashes," so if there are flashes,
then give ourselves a div with a class of
the flash-messages. Then, what that will
do here, let's do a quick dump of the
actual data, and the way that you can dump
something is you give yourself a pre tag
and you set it to "h.dump," and you pass
it "locals." Let's just pass it "locals."
So where did that dump come from? Well,
remember we had that helpers.js file?
Here we have that dump file, and all this
will do is allow us to just visually view
a JavaScript object on the page. So I'll
go back to our layout.
We're just dumping it, and refresh. See,
this is all of the information that's
available to us in our locals. So what we
have is some settings about what port it's
running. We have some information about
our menu. Then, here we have our flash.
This is the actual data. So let's just
dump "locals.flashes". You see that we
have an object, and then we have a key for
every type of flash that we've created.
So when we visited that page, we had an
"error," an "info," a "warning,"
a "success." So those are the four types
of flashes, and you can make any type that
you want. You could probably make one
called "wes" and when you refresh this,
you'll see now there's a category called
"wes". Obviously, it's going to be white,
because there is no styling associated
with that. But what we're doing in our
layout.pug is we are using object.keys to
get an array of "error,"
"info," "warning," and "success." Then, we
loop over each of those categories,
"error," "info," "warning," "success," and
we loop over each of the flash messages
that happen inside of that. Right? Because
if we had multiple errors,
"error," I'll say, "Another thing
happened." I'll do a third one.
"OH NO!!!" So now, we should have three
error messages when we refresh the page.
There we go. See, our error has,
"Something Happened," "Another thing
happened," and "OH NO!!!" So this
layout.pug is going to loop over each of
the messages in that flash category of
"error," and then we are simply going to
export a flash, which is this div that's
going to have a class of
"flash--$". So if you inspect
this real quick, you see this one has a
"flash--error," "flash--error,"
"flash--info," "flash--warnings,"
"flash--success." We put the flash message
in there. Now, this is a little bit
different. This is because if your flash
message contains some HTML,
this will embed the actual HTML. Let me
show you that real quick.
So if I had a strong tag around "thing",
now you see "thing" is actually a strong
value. If you didn't have that in your
layout.pug, if you simply just said "=",
what that will show us is the actual text
"strong", whereas we want the "!=" and
that will parse the HTML as HTML. Then, I
have a button, where I have an inline
event listener in JavaScript that just
says, "this.parent.remove" and that will
just remove the element from the DOM,
whenever you click the actual X.
So that's what flashes are. They allow us
to show information on the page.
We use a middleware in order to pass those
flashes to our locals,
and then in our layout we check if there
are any flashes and we show them on the
page if there are any flashes to show.
That will only work if you use sessions,
because the whole idea of sessions is that
you can save data from one request to
another. Otherwise, your application is
stateless, and there's no real way to pass
data from one request to another. So what
we want to do here is we've got our
"success." We can remove all of these
other flashes that we have here.
We'll double-check that it works. We'll go
to Add. We'll try to test another one.
"Testing 123," "I love bread." Try to add
a few. Actually, one more thing we want to
do before we submit this is we don't want
to redirect them to the homepage.
We want to redirect them to the actual
store. So let's change this to "`/store/".
We want to redirect them to the
"store.slug" value that has come back.
Now, there's a little bit of a problem
here, because this store here only has the
actual three pieces of data that came in.
The slug is auto-generated.
So what we want to do is actually modify
this a little bit so that we can wrap this
in parentheses. We'll call ".save" on it
immediately. Then, we can "await" that,
and we'll sort of do it all in one go. So
we create the store,
call "save," which returns a promise, and
we're going to "await" that.
The response from the "await" will be put
into our "store" variable,
so that we can then access a generated
value, which is the slug.
We'll give that a save. I'll come back
here, and what should happen is that when
I save it, it should redirect us to
"/store/testing-123". Let's give it a
save. There we go. It says,
"/store/testing-123," "Successfully
Created Testing 123. Care to leave a
review?" Then, it brings us to a 404 page.
Why? Because we haven't yet set up the
route in order to handle
"/store/testing-123." That's fine. We'll
come along to that in a couple of videos.
♪ [music] ♪